Projects:
Monitoring v2
Tower monitoring/ pipeline alerts?
Batch switchover




Performance review:

1. What did you set out to achieve this year and to what extent do you feel you accomplished it?*
	1. This year we set out to create a CLIv2 in Golang, initially with parity to CLIv1. This new CLI will enable more functionality which would be tricky to implement in bash, and provides a better development experience for the developers who work on and maintain it. I started leading the effort and we are now close to have parity with CLIv1.
2. Describe up to 3 examples of where you feel you have performed at your best or demonstrates your achievement this year. Explain what made them so successful?
	2. 1 - Pairing with the Data Science team to improve their CI/CD process. Using my expertise in this area helped streamline their release process and reduce toil in this area for them, allowing them to spend more time developing modality features. Behaviours: we elevate each other?
	3. 2 - Kicking off the development of the new CLI, using my experience of being part of the team who delivered the first iteration allowed us to get a working PoC up and running quickly to demonstrate the value of this project to the company and customers. Behaviour: curiosity & customer success
	4. 3 - Cost reduction, as part of the initial effort, identified savings of £150k annually, and helped implement these reducing out monthly cloud spend with near immediate effect. Behaviour: this moment decides our future
3. Choose 1-3 areas where you didn't achieve what you'd hoped or things didn't go to plan. Think about how you would do things differently next time or what you would need to improve the situation.
	1. Failing to check in with Ken/ FAS team to make sure they are not over stretched. Make sure to check in on colleagues often in case they need support.
4. What would you like to work on going forward? What do you see as your next step or direction? What will excite or challenge you?
	1. Career development: Get more involved in the management of kubernetes in biomodal, supplemented by the CKA training and qualification.
	2. Make sure any support requests are attended to swiftly, both internally and with customers. Help share the load of customer support requests, and feed these into pipeline engineering, to either improve the pipeline or CLI to proactively solve these problems for future customers.
	3. Elevate other teams and peers with the application of DevOps principles and knowledge.
	4. 

6. How do you feel about your current role? What do you see as your next career step or goal and what do you need to get there?*
	1. I am happy with my current role, but want to make the jump to Senior. To get there, I would like more feedback on how I am perceived and how I'm performing against the CT growth framework. This will be supplemented with training with tools I'm less comfortable with like Kubernetes to ensure I have a solid technical foundation.
7. Identify any areas of change or things you would like managed differently in the future.*
	1. I would be interested in hearing more about the product management side of pipeline engineering, particular with a focus on the CLI. This will help efforts of it's development and distribution.


